
Online community of practice (CoP) or knowledge sharing forum

1. Number of members of CoP
2. Number of contributions by type of content 
3. Number of views of different types of contents 
4. Distribution of members' participation (comment, don't comment and listeners
5. Number of answers by discussion 
6. Number of days before the first answer on a discussion 
7. Number of members who engage discussions 
8. Number of contributions from moderators 
9. Number of (mutual) connections of access, exit, moderators and members of the CoP in the corporate social
network 
10. Number of discussions which broke down into other topics 
11. Presence of target public who participated in the CoP setting procedures 
12. Non-participation of the target public due to discontinuation or lack of setting of the CoP 
13. Number of chats which had resulted in the portal 
14. If a person has talked to someone who they had never talked before and who they probably would not have
talked to if it were not for the community 
15. Someone who has already worked out of the CoP with someone who met on the CoP 
16. The person can give an example of what the community allows you to do 


Knowledge product (KP)

17. Number of KP created
18. Percentage of users who classify KP as good, excellent, or useful
19. Number of KP mentions
20. Number of KP downloads
21. Number of people who read a KP
22. Percentage of readers who accessed a particular KP
23. Number of people who acquire knowledge about their work and/or product policy through reading 
24. Number of channels where a KP is available
25. If there was knowledge acquired through discussions about the product 
26. Number of KP reccommendations
27. Useful for the knowledge product noticed by the target public
28. Number of examples where work has been mentioned


Organizational development of the KM capacity

29. Percentage of people who feel encouraged to share knowledge with their co-workers 
30. Percentage of people who believe they have time to transmit and receive knowledge "from" or "to" other
people 
31. Percentage of people who share knowledge with a co-worker from outside their team at least once a week 
32. Percentage of people who believe knowledge is an essential organizational resource
33. Percentage of people who agree they are encouraged, by the organization, to seek knowledge from coworkers
34. Percentage of people who agree that if the need comes up for a specific piece of knowledge, the
organization will offer an expert to help 
35. Percentage of people who agree that they know exactly "who" in the organization has the specific
knowledge to help them in their job 
36. Percentage of people who agree that they can find the knowledge they need quickly and easily 
37. Percentage of people who agree that organizational knowledge is useful and meets their needs when
sought for in an organizational repository 
38. Percentage of people who agree that organization's CoP improve and facilitate knowledge sharing 
39. Percentage of people who agree that it is not so easy to share knowledge with co-workers from other teams
as it is with the ones from their team 
40. Percentage of people who are confident that all their knowledge created with potential value for future
projects will be known, traceable and used after they have left the organization 
41. Structures for teamwork and project which encourage people to present experiences and insights from
other settings to shape their work 
42. Encourage people from many perspectives and different points of view to emerge in the company 


Participants’ perspectives about the research

1. This set of indicators will help me with decision-making on my daily life?
2. Do you think that KM is important to your organization?
3. Do you think that KM is important to the project you are involved with?
4. What is your understanding level regarding KM?
5. Do you have any suggestion about those indicators? (e.g. add/replace/take out an indicator; comments; etc.)



Extracted from:

VALIDATING KNOWLEDGE CREATION INDICATORS FOR THE SOFTWARE INDUSTRY: A FIELD RESEARCH THROUGH A STRUCTURED QUESTIONNAIRE
International Journal of Development Research
Danieli Pinto
2017